## jeff face looking dumb

My first UserConf was in New York this past May. One of the things I was most
struck by was that everyone I met was a practitioner - meaning they were
actually working in support, or community, or customer experience.

That makes me really nervous and excited to talk to you today, since you are
all so smart and experienced. So here goes nothing.

## Wistia Sign

My name is Jeff, I work at Wistia. We're a video hosting and analytics platform
for business.

## Wistia Sign w Arrow

We also have cute dogs. This is Lenny.

## Growth Hurts

Today I want to talk about growth.

We talk a lot about growth in other contexts - there are growth hackers and
whole growth conferences, but as support people, I don't think we talk about
growth much, which is probably because growth can be a sticky situation for us.

On one hand, customer growth is exciting! Growth means more people using our
apps and talking about our company. But on the other hand, growth also means
more support tickets, more feature requests, and more requests for "just 5
minutes" of our time.

## Young Wistia

At Wistia, we went through our first growth spurt in early 2012. We had
released this new set of features, and we were getting interest from
potential customers we never had a shot with before.

At first, the support increase after the launch just seemed like the typical
post launch bump, and I was thinking "this will subside, no big deal."

## oh yeah, we did

Boy I was just totally wrong.

Before long, support felt like some game of twisted whack-a-mole. I'd answer
and email, and three more would spring up in it's place! I'd hang up from a
call, and the phone would start ringing again!

I was drowning in support.

Many of you have probably experienced what I was feeling at that time. I was
burned out, exhausted, and generally sick of answering the same questions over
and over again.

## How to scale support?

In looking at the requests, they really weren't anything new - it was just that
pure volume that had increased.

Most were product issues - places where a young app like
ours just wasn't fully polished. As you all know, we can't just fix wave a
magic wand and fix all the product problems. Development just takes time.

But we could find new ways to answer these questions, without requiring our
customers to email into support.

We could find a NEW WAY to provide more scalable support.

## Show me the new way

In establishing this new way, we had two big goals:

First, it definitely had to scale. We
weren't planning to hire a huge support team, so we had to find a way to
amplify our message.

Second, we weren't OK with any solutions that would take the experience our
current experience our loyal customers were having and make it shitty experience.

I'm really excited to walk you through our new approach today - but first, I
want to introduce you to my inspiration.

## Ronny Coleman is really strong

Does anyone know who this is?

This is Ronny Coleman. Ronny is an American powerlifter who has won Mr. Olympia
EIGHT TIMES. For comparison, Arnold only one it seven times. Whatup, Arnold.

Ronny is also a really funny guy. He has these self-inspirational quotes that
we've adopted, and get yelled out quite a bit around our office. Let's take a
look at some of my favorites.

## PLAY RONNY COLEMAN VIDEO

## "LIGHT WEIGHT BABY!"

So if you want to get strong like Ronny, you have two options. You could lift
light weights a bazillion times...or you could lift really freaking heavy
weights a few times.

Successful powerlifters like Ronny subscribe to the idea of heavier weights,
fewer lifts. I'm learning this and I'm like...huh, there might be a good
analogy here.

So I started calling my approach the Heavy Ass Weights of Support.

## Lifting the Heavy Ass Weights of Support

So quick survey - how many people here send a lot of email? (HANDS OR CLAPS)

So you'll probably be familiar with the situation I'm talking about - you're
responding to a support email, and you're having this dreaded deja vu feeling.

You've definitely sent that exact email before. It's like groundhog day - every
day you are responding to support requests you've handled dozens or even
hundreds of times before.

Sending support emails that you can write in your sleep, is like Ronny curling
a 20 pound dumbbell!

Again and again, you're lifting these light weights, and you gotta lift them
all day in order to get the value.

Heavy weight support, by contrast, means systematically looking at the those
support conversations we have again and again and creating useful resources to
help educate our customers and get them going.

That being said, heavy weight support is not purely self-service. We still
send lots of emails and we even have phone support!

It's all about creating alternates to the higher-touch routes, so they
are not the first option for a stuck customer. Think of it as a first line of
defense.

## Heavy Weight Examples

And heavy Weight resources are nothing new - they are things like
documentation, in-app help, webinars, and screencasts. I'm sure pretty much
everyone is familiar with these.

The challenge is prioritizing them, and doing them well. Too often we decide to
just do the light weight work, answering frequently asked questions, or just
keep providing 1-on-1 demos.

I want to convince you to allocate more of your time for Heavy Weight
resources, because doing them well pays huge dividends over time for you and
your customers.

## Heavy Ass Weight Key benefits

So a high-level view of the big benefits: lifting heavy ass weights creates
badass users, it helps us connect with them at scale, and also helps us build
incredibly talented teams.

Let's get started with creating badass users.

## Heavy Ass Weights => Badass Users

I'm stealing this concept directly from Kathy Sierra. When she said "badass",
she was using it as a more exciting synonym for "expert". Badass users
(or experts) know how to get shit done using your app, and are confident doing it.

Our goal as support people has always been to create badass users.  We are the
educators and map builders for our customers, guiding them to creating awesome
things.

## The Heavy Ass Weights are Empowering

The heavy weight approach creates **more** badass users **faster** than the
light weight alternative for one simple reason - it is a more empowering. It
gives our customers all the tools they need to be successful without direct
help from us.

Let's take a look at how this works. Let's say a customer wants to do something
common, so in my world it might be embedding a video, and they don't know
where to start.

In the light weight approach, the confused person has to drop an email to
support, or call a help line, in order to move forward.

Over time, they get conditioned - when they want to try something new, they
have to call you. Or email you. They become frozen with fear about trying
something new.

The immediate cost of reaching out to support outweighs the potential benefit
they may get from using your app to the fullest. That is bad!!

With the heavy weight approach, a common activity like this would get a
prominent, well-thought out doc page guiding them through the process. We might
shoot a screencast for it, or include an in-app tool tip that gets stuck users
going again.

-- pause -- (or slide of children learning?)

If you look at research on how people learn best, it's pretty conclusive that
we learn by tinkering, by having the confidence to try something out on our own
and see the results. 

Static resources can enable that - our customers can watch a video one hundred 
times in a row, if that will help them get the concept.

People who are really empowered to learn become more comfortable and confident
using our apps, which ultimately results in the doing of more awesome things.

## Big Slide of Progress

So here is how I illustrate the growth of our badass users.

When you are on-boarding happy customers and giving them lots of good
resources, you get a graph that looks like this. And you are happy.

The top line here is our new user growth, and the bottom line is our total
support requests. Early on, you can see that each new user we added meant
another email or phone call that month. Our support volume was also equal to
roughly 40% of our total user base at that time. Phew.

In May of 2012, as we were prepping to launch a Wistia free plan, I was totally
freaked out. How could we possible handle the onslaught of new Wistia users
that it would bring? Turns out our approach held steady, with lots of new free
users checking out the resources on their first run.

## Annotated Big Slide

Today, our monthly support volume is less than 5% of our total user base. This
is not due to any one event - it's lots of incremental improvements, like the 
ones I note here - things like more resources and updates to our app to
reduce friction.

## yeah buddy!

That gets a "yeah buddy".

## Takeaway

Ok so let's wrap up this point: Heavy weight support enables your users to
accomplish their task, again and again, on their timetable. It creates more
experts who can do amazing things with your product.


## the inbox is a terrible place to meet people.

So the first big benefit of the Heavy Ass Weights is they create more badass
users using scalable resources.

Now I want to turn to how we are connecting with our customers.

In the light weight approach, most of the time the connection we create with
our customers originates in the support inbox.

But the support context is a terrible place to meet people! The customer is
stressed, the support person has a queue out the door - it's a recipe for
disaster.

So what if instead of waiting for them, we created resources that walked them
through the getting started workflows, and then started adding their frequently
asked questions to those resources?

Suddenly our conversations go from being reactive, from having to reset
expectations and beg for forgiveness, to being valuable and insightful.

## Fictional Conversation 1

Let's look at a quick fictional example. Let's say the customer writes in and
asks:

"I just need to know if ya'll provide SEO for squirrel videos! I've looked
everywhere and I can't find anything!"

If we don't have resources to point to, we're in reactive mode. We have to
reply:

"Sorry about that! We actually don't provide SEO support for squirrel videos!"

To which they reply very angrily.

## No One Wants to Feel like a Dummy

I spent a lot of time researching how our users got started and how they
overcame early hurdles. I was surprised to find how much they will research
before they ever reach out to support.

If you make it easy enough, many customers will try to look up the answer to
their questions first, before they reach out. After all, no one wants to feel
like a dummy when they email the support experts.

## Fictional Conversation 2

Now you can't resolve all the questions like this, but the Heavy Weight
approach means that if you identify this as a frequently asked question, you 
would create documentation for it and include it in your on-boarding resources.

Having that information up front and easily accessible leads to a much better
conversation:

"Hey, I've checked your documentation, and I see you don't provide SEO support
for squirrel videos. Can you please do this in the future?"

Ah, much better. We make our customer feel better, and set better expectations,
so we end up in a more valuable conversation.

Now I know what you're thinking - yes, some people don't look or research their
questions. But the volume we've cut down on more than offsets this number.

## Customers that connect with us, stay longer.

Early on, one of my fears with the Heavy Ass Weight approach was that if we
weren't speaking with as many customers, we would lose our connection with 
them, which we'd spent years to build.

In our research, we're finding that connection to our team and our brand is one
of the big reasons customers choose us.

And I don't think we're special in this regard - I'd bet your customers feel
the same way as well.

So now I want to show you how you can use the Heavy Weight approach to actually
improve the connections you are making with your customers.

## Focus on Them, Not Us

In the light-weight approach, customers that don't email support, don't
connect with us. So we might even "cold email" them, practically beg them to
talk to us, just to make sure they get the personal touch.

This is making the focus all about us, instead of about what the customer
actually needs.

The Heavy Weight approach, instead, connects with even self-service customers
with resources crafted in our own voice. Even if they never email us for
support, they get to know our personality and brand through our webinars,
support videos, and documentation.

## Pictures of us

We also don't want our customers to connect only with our support folks - there
are a lot of people who put their time and passion into building our product,
and we want our customers to get to know them as well.

Our onboarding and support videos show off the faces from all around the
company (the slides behind me). These are included in the heavy weight
resources our new users have access to from minute one, before they are in need
of support.

Seeing these faces and interacting with their personalities means our customers
now feel more involved in our lives. Our support emails reference team members
by name, and customers might even send gifts addressed to a specific team
member for their help. The relationships we're creating using scalable
resources are stronger and more personal than ever before.

## Takeaway

So, big takeaway two - If your heavy weight support resources are crafted in
your own voice and reflect your brand personality, using them is actually the
best way to scale your ability to connect.

## Mining For New Resources

I want to tell you a story that I think illustrates the Heavy Weight approach
in action.

At Wistia, our Video SEO feature is one of the big differentiators for us and
we draw lots of new customers because of it.

But it's also one of our most confusing features, because it requires the user
to do a bunch of work and there are several moving parts involved.

At one point, we were receiving twenty emails a day with folks who were
confused by the Video SEO feature. I'm sure I don't have to tell this crowd -
when your product isn't working as the customer expects, it's a serious
problem.

## Video in sidebar

So over coffee one morning, Chris and I decided to shoot a video outlining the
required Video SEO feature steps.

We based the script on the emails we were already sending, so it didn't really
take that long to whip together. Maybe an hour to script, setup, and shoot.

## Red Arrow!

When it was ready, we added it to the Video SEO tool page inside our customer
accounts.

## Video itself

Here is what the video looked like.

## Stats for Video SEO

That video also linked to the Video SEO doc page, which had a more in-depth
screencast and answers to frequently asked questions.

Overnight, those emails disappeared.

This is what the stats looked like for that video after a few weeks. Over two
thousand views, and almost 30 hours of video watched.

## 30 Hours!

Think about that - that's 30 hours of help and hand-holding we didn't have to
provide.

## pic of crazy mercer Jordan and Max K

So if we aren't doing a lot of hand-holding...what the heck does a team that
adopts the Heavy Weight approach do?

While we still send a lot of email, the focus used to be on emptying the inbox.
If that was done, our team was doing a good job.

The heavy weight approach now lets us branch out and attack big issues in more 
proactive ways than just answering a support email. 

Instead of answering the same question over and over again, we are
trying to resolve confusion **before it starts**.

Fixing these big issues lowers overall email volume, which gives our support
team more time to spend with high-touch customers. It's this great self-feeding
process.

## The Inbox is Only the Beginning

This is sort of my new mantra. When you adopt the heavy weight approach, the
inbox is only the beginning.

My team at Wistia is called Customer Happiness, not Customer Support. It's
because we shouldn't just be limited to the inbox when it comes to helping our
customers.

Instead of just yammering on about it at a high level, I want to tell you more 
about what our team is up to. Our small support team is full of really smart, 
really talented people who improve our customer’s lives in so many ways. 

Let me introduce you to them and some of the projects they are working on.

## Max and Jordan pics

This is Max and Jordan. Each week they run a web show where they welcome our
newest customers. The whole thing is improv, so they get to talking heavy metal
and whiskey with our new customers more than you'd think.

When we get customers in a pre-sales context that are asking a laundry-list of
evaluation questions, we invite them to join us for the webinar. Saves us a ton
of time doing 1-on-1 demos, and is a lot more fun for customers too.

## Mercer

This is Mercer. Mercer puts together a weekly email she calls the Inbox
Inventory, which lets our entire team know what happened in support that week.
She runs through the support volume, major issues, and questions she thinks
need resolving. 

Now our big support problems get circulated to all parts of the company, which 
has led to a lot of whole team involvement and conversations.

## Otters!

Sorry, I just really wanted an excuse to put otters on a slide. I just love
this image - look how cute they are!

I think that because we aren't slammed with the volume of support that a
light-weight practitioner is, we get to build an amazing team, slowly and
thoughtfully. We get to identify potential team members with special interests
and skills that can make our customers even more awesome.

When you do that, customers will thank you (with their money) for considering
their time in helping them achieve their goals.

## Takeaway 3

Take-away number 3: You will not automate away people by adopting a heavy ass
weight approach.  Instead, you will give them the headroom and the freedom to
make amazing things and give your customers superpowers.

---

## MAKE IT F'ing AWESOME

For the rest of my time I want to talk about the Heavy Ass weights our team has
created, and give you some tactical suggestions for making yours awesome.

In the process of creating this presentation, I learned that in some cases,
your support team might not be the group that creates these resources. My hope
is these suggestions, and the wins for support they illustrate, will give you
ammunition for getting better resources created.

One other note - I'm going to post these slides immediately after my talk, so
don't worry about getting any of these points down.

## Screenshot of Wistia Documentation

So let's get to some examples! The first heavy weight resources I want to talk
about is documentation. I'm betting pretty much everyone in the room has
documentation, and I'm hoping one of my tips will help you make it better.

## Screenshot 2

At Wistia, we use documentation in a whole bunch of ways.

We include a link to the relevant documentation in our support emails. This
saves our customers from having to search for info themselves, and it also
makes them more comfortable when they need to consult the docs for help.

We also place a link to it prominently in your app, so users looking to
self-service can find it without any trouble.

## Heavy Hittin' Docs

So that's how we use documentation, how about some tips?

First, use your normal language, not robot speak. Look at emails you are
already sending that work, and pull out parts of that language for your
documentation.

Also keep it readable in chunks - we don't have any doc pages that are more
than a 10 minute read.

Second, use lots of real interface images, and make the images as large as you
can. Images help put your readers in the context of the app.

Third, it is really good to have search functionality in your documentation.
We provide a way to search the documentation from inside customer accounts.  We
also monitor common searches for more ways to improve.

If you are looking for an example of excellent docs - my favorite docs right
now are the Github docs, check them out.

## Support Video

The next example is video. While videos are not as ubiquitous as documentation,
screencasting software has started making them a lot easier to create.

Video does the best job of connecting the interface with the support. The
viewer gets to watch you complete the actions they are looking to do, which
provides them a clear roadmap to how to get it done.

Video also takes the least investment for the consumer. It leaves your users
with plenty of energy to GO DO the thing they came to do. Ever read a huge
text block, and then need a snack and a nap in order to do anything else? OK
that's what we want to avoid.

We have a whole getting started series on video, which you're seeing here...

## Screenshot 2

..and we link to it from every page of our app.

## Stats Screenshot

Here are the stats for just one of our getting started series videos. Almost
600 hours of time our customers have spent honing their skills in their
pajamas.

## Heavy Hittin' Video

Here are some tips for creating excellent support videos:

First, don't be afraid to make it scrappy. No one is a video professional on
their first try. Your customers are more focused on the content than they are
the production value. Sure, some day down the line you might re-do them, but
for now it's just important that they exist!

Second, keep it focused. No one likes a super long and boring walkthrough. No
one. We set a goal in advance for what we will cover, and who it is for. If it
is for first-time users, then keep it to the basics. You can always supplement
with an expert-level video later.

Third, get your face on there! We use live-action bumpers with our videos to
increase engagement and connection. Remember, when done well, heavy weight
resources scale that personal connection better than email.

Finally, make it easy to update. Things will change in your app - keep the
original edit around, so you can drop in new screencasts when a button or menu
changes.

I think MailChimp are my favorite example of support videos done right.

## In-App Tool Tips

My final example resource are tool tips. Tool tips are those little hint boxes
that popup when you hover over them. They are the best for providing that
little *nudge* to keep your users going.

## Heavy Hittin' Tool Tips

So three tips for making great tool-tips:

* format them for clarity: if they are just a block of text, people won't read
  them.
* link out to relevant documentation. since these by nature have to be short,
  they won't cover everything. Include a link for more info.
* Use support speak, not marketing speak. People are trying to get things done
  in here.

## Where do I start?

Ok, I know I've thrown a lot at you. I want to help focus your thinking on
where to start.

For us, it started with mining our support emails to find where our new users
were having the most trouble.

Once we had some friction points, we updated our documentation and in-app help
to attack those bottlenecks. That has made our customer's lives, and our
support teams lives, much better. We've been pretty much off to the races ever
since.

So to get started, I'd recommend looking at your initial workflows -
the actions and features that prove the value of your product and get
prospective customers reaching for their wallets.

---

OK, now I want to close out by saying something that I don't think gets said
enough.

## YOU ARE AWESOME

**You. are. awesome.**

As support people, you spend countless hours communicating with customers,
walking them through our product, and documenting their requests for the
product team.

You are the front-line heros that make-or-break your company's future.

So I beg of you, if you only take one thing away from this talk: your time is
important. When you see something that is draining your time and preventing you
from doing next level work for your customers, automate it away.

## Ain't Nothin But a Peanut!

Your customers don't need hand holding, and they don't need coddling. All they
need are clear, helpful support resources.

Make more happy customers. Lift some heavy ass weights. Thank you.

## Ciao
